# 1. INSTALLING APACHE
Installing and configuring a basic Ubuntu Server 22.04 Apache (based on AWS EC2)

## INSTALLING

```bash
    sudo apt update; sudo apt upgrade;
    sudo apt install apache2;
    sudo a2enmod rewrite;
```

<br>

## SETTING DOMAIN/SUBDOMAIN VIRTUAL HOST
Now we need to configure our domain or subdomains. We will remove all the default configuration and create our own.
Execute the following command:
<br>

```bash
sudo a2dissite;
```

<br>

This command serves to **disable** one or more virtual hosts.
Apache will ask to you which virtual host you would like to disable. Disable **everything that is shown**, typing the name of the virtual host that Apache is showing to you.

> NOTE: You can disable more than one virtual host typing their names separating by spaces

<br>

Next, remove the default configuration files:

```bash
cd /etc/apache2/sites-available/;
sudo rm 000-default.conf;
sudo rm default-ssl.conf;
 ```
 
<br>

Now, lets create a new domain OR subdomain conf file. I will use *mydomain.com* as example, but you need to use a real domain to make it work.

<br>

 ### 1. Create a new virtual host conf file
 
 ```bash
 cd /etc/apache2/sites-available/;
 sudo nano mydomain.conf;
 ```
 
 **IMPORTANT:** Replace the `mydomain` to a proper name of your choice
 
<br>

### 2. Copy and paste this configuration (`CTRL+SHIFT+V`)

 ```apache
<VirtualHost *:80>
        ServerName mydomain.com
        ServerAlias mydomain.com

        DocumentRoot "/home/ubuntu/mydomain/public_folder"

        <Directory "/home/ubuntu/mydomain/public_folder">
                Options Indexes FollowSymLinks
                AllowOverride All
                Require all granted
                DirectoryIndex index.html index.php
        </Directory>
</VirtualHost>
```
<br>

---

* **VERY IMPORTANT: Create one file per domain or subdomain. Do not create a single file with multiple vhosts, because we will use the Let's Encrypt Certbot to apply SSL certificates to them and this tool can misconfigurate your vhost files.**

---

<br><br>

**NOTES:**
 - You **need** to change the `ServerName` and `ServerAlias` to your domain OR subdomain (for example *blog.mydomain.com*).
 - You **need** to change the `DocumentRoot` and `Directory` to the public folder where your **index file** is located.

<br>

Save the file pressing CTRL+O (CTRL+S can work too) and then exit Nano pressing CTRL+X.

<br>

### 3. Enable the virtual host

```bash
sudo a2ensite;
```

<br>

This command serves to **enable** one or more virtual hosts.
Apache will ask to you which virtual host you would like to enable. Just type the name of the virtual host we created (in my example I will type *mydomain*)

> NOTE: You can enable more than one virtual host typing their names separating by spaces

<br>

### 4. Add the www-data user access permissions

You will see that Apache have a specific user that interact with files and folders.

<br>

Add the `www-data` user to the same group that your user is part. Usually the name of the group in EC2 (from a Ubuntu installation) is `ubuntu`.

```bash
sudo usermod -a -G ubuntu www-data;
```

> **IMPORTANT:** Make shure that the folder or file has your user group as its owner.

<br>

### 5. Reboot the system

```bash
sudo reboot;
```

<br><br>
<div>
    <table width="9000">
        <!-- <tr>
            <td width="9000"></td>
            <td width="50%" align="right"><a href=""><b></b></a></td>
        </tr> -->
        <tr>
            <td width="9000" colspan="2" align="center">
                <a href="">
                    <b>Return to the main list</b>
                </a>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </table>
</div>